Were you and the others working in this building
aware that his health was declining? I don't think
I was. I wasn't either. And do you remember hearing
the news that he had died? That is not... I'm sure I
did, but right now I don't recall exactly when it
was that we knew. And his body was in state here in
the... main lobby of the building. Was it for one
day or longer? Seems like it was longer, but I'm not
sure. I don't remember either. And work continued
in the offices during that time. And I think there
have been times when they thought that the when
they when the chief executive officer was both the
chancellor and the president they thought that
was too heavy a load for and maybe some of this was
caused by but I'm not sure if that had anything to do
with it. Because he he at the time of his death was
both. I think so. President and Chancellor. um
then ludic he was interim president briefly then
jack williams became president what was your
impression of him well i had a good impression of dr
williams as far as i knew he was a fine president
what but you know dr monroe i didn't have close
contact with those people it was just that i knew
they were and respected them and thought they were
I have no negative comments. But I'm assuming if
you saw them in the hallway, was Williams
outgoing? I don't remember much about that.
Dean, Dr. Kunkel became the dean. Before he got to
be dean, I went to work for Dr. Patterson. Okay. Dr.
Patterson loses his secretary and He had told Dr.
Kunkel he was going to ask me to come over there. So
Dr. Kunkel called me at home and said, Dr.
Patterson's going to ask you to work for him. And I
said, well, I'll help him, but I'm not going to work
for him. But Dr. Patterson wouldn't have it any
other way. And he found somebody for Dr. Kunkel.
Oh, okay. So I went over to the dean's office before
Dr. Kunkel did for about a year maybe or so. I was
here when Dr. Patterson was on his way, you know,
was leaving the university. Where did he go or did
he retire? No, he went to Thailand. Oh, okay. And he
got an international assignment and he had had a
low blood count for a long time and he had had it
checked. over and over again, both here on campus,
I think, and maybe at Temple. And they didn't want
to let him go to Thailand. But he persuaded them
that that was normal for him. Uh-oh. So they let him
go for two years. And no problem? No, I don't think
so. Oh, I thought you were going to... No, he went
to, he got to go. But it took a while to go into
doctors and Houston and Temple to persuade them
that his health was alright. Did he retire from A&M
when he left? I would imagine he did. In other
words, he did not take leave? No, no. He did not take
leave. And Dr. Kunkel, did he become Super Dean?
No, he was the interim Super Dean for about a year
and they recruited to fill that position. And it
ended up that Dr. Kunkel got the position. Were you
all happy with that position? Yes, I was. I was very
happy with that. They brought in someone from
California for interview, but Dr. Kunkel was
named dean, and he at that time was the super dean.
Describe the differences in working for these
various deans.
I don't know. Which one put in the longest hours?
I'm trying to think. Dr. Kunkel put in long hours.
I remember Dr. Patterson. We knew when he was going
out of town, he'd wear his boots. And, you know, he
drove. They drove everywhere they went about that
time. They were always... driving and you had
these travel vouchers and you had to put down the
mileage and they went and the around the between
the towns and then the mileage that was driven in
the area. So you've been doing a lot of travel
vouchers that had mileage. And sometimes he would
go all the way to El Paso and the Panhandle and
Weslaco. Everywhere they went, he would drive. Of
the deans we've chatted about so far, did some of
them have favorite research projects? Was one
more interested in cattle and the other more
interested in this or that? Well, I guess they
can't really be that way, you know. They have to,
and I'm amazed at sometimes, sometimes I'm amazed
or all the time amazed at how broad they, you know,
they are in areas that they know what's going on
with in the plant and the animal and biotechnology
or whatever the area is that they could come out of a
particular field and then be seemingly become so
broadly. Now when they were getting ready to go on a
trip what did you try to gather together for them?
Well anything that pertained to their travel
without the position I mean the purpose of the
trip. But that might be a big stack of materials.
Well sometimes it might be but most of the time
wasn't that big. So, Dean Kunkel, of the men you
worked for, he was dean the longest, I guess? Yes,
sir. His tenure over here was from 1960, December
of 62, until May of 88. But some of that time, when
Dr. Miller became the president, He changed Dr.
Kunkel's appointment to just be dean of the
college. And he had O.D. Butler as vice president,
or associate vice president, and Perry Atkinson
was the vice president for agriculture at that
time. And that took the Experiment Station and
Extension Service and put it under their
administration. All right, but your task was
still to be the, and what was the title by then?
Probably, first it was executive secretary. I
went from administrative to executive and then to
assistant to the dean. And gradually electric
typewriters and then computers. Yes, sir.
Automatic telephones. When I came back to work, in
58 they had gotten electric typewriters and when
they wanted me to fill out a form I first asked for a
manual typewriter for the form but it doesn't take
long till you get the touch. Of all these
technological changes which one was the most
difficult to adjust to? Well I think it took me a day
or two to get used to an electric typewriter And now
I use the computer, but I don't know all things
about the computer. A lot of these girls do. And if I
get stuck, I ask for help. Over in the lab? I've
never gone to take instruction on the computer.
Over in the library, when we have a problem, we turn
to one of the students to explain to us how to solve
the problem. Back to campus administration. Do
you remember when your thoughts or the reaction
when Dr. Williams became ill, his heart attack?
Well, there again, we think this is too much of a
position for one person. If that had anything to do
with it, I don't know. Then, Dr. Miller, you say he
reorganized. Which was better? Which
organizational pattern, from your point of view,
was better? To have the super dean or to divide it
up? Well, to me, I was used to the super dean and I
thought that was a good organization. During all
those years, did you have much contact, you and
your staff, with board members, directors, then
regents? No, sir, except Bob Cherry was upstairs,
and sometime we got assignments down here, you
know, to help get ready for the board meeting. In
fact, I probably still have thank yous from Bob
Cherry thanking us for, they were right upstairs,
and if they had some materials they needed to type
or get ready for the board. We did that a few times.
And this would be, by and large, informational
material. Informational. What about
legislature? Did the dean, the director? Yes,
sir. I remember at that time when I came over here,
They're going to the legislature and that's
getting materials ready. In fact, I have driven
out to the airport and handed Dr. Kunkel some
materials on brush control or other things when
they were ready to take off to go to Austin. Over all
the years, what were some of the controversial
agricultural topics? Some of the research
projects or topics that caused the greatest
discussion? I don't know whether I can answer that
or not. At the moment, I don't think of situations
where the most controversial. I was trying to
think of some where the politicians would have
argued. I'm sure there are some. I would feel sure
there are some. All right, then Dr. Ernstson. came
as Deputy Chancellor and Dean so we go back to the
Super Dean yes and just where did he come from Dr.
Ernst I think he came from industry okay and the
East and I'm not sure whether it was DuPont or some
organization How did you and your staff educate
him about the way Texas A&M did things? Well, when
he came, he asked me about, you know, talked to me
about, you know, about working for him. And he
indicated I would have to stop what I was doing now
and just be at his, you know, helping in his office.
Because at that time, he would take the person who
was assistant to the meetings. I think he soon
stopped that. But... We had I would he would
sometimes throw things in the trash that I would
probably be fishing out, you know That he and he
came over here and he our offices weren't
decorative they Enough he we took all the pictures
of the Dean's down and we made some changes Then Dr.
Lee came and And then briefly, he was briefly, and
then Ed Heiler. Dr. Lee was here, I think, as
interim
from January to September. Okay. And then Ed
Heiler. Then Ed Heiler. Who came from
agricultural engineering back then. No, sir, he
had already, he had left agricultural
engineering, was over in the chancellor's
office. Oh, okay. I think he was interim
chancellor for a while. And before that, he had had
another title in that office, though. But no, I was
meaning his discipline was agricultural
engineering. Oh, yes, sir. It is. All right. And so
now, for eight years, you've been working with
him. Right. Describe his style of leadership.
Well, he's tried very hard. Well, he's
accomplishing it, I think, of the cooperative
research extension and teaching He believes in
integrating all of that. About how many people now
are on the staff of the Vice Chancellor and Dean?
How many people do you have to watch over? Well,
right now I'm not watching over very many as far as
I'm concerned, but this office has grown. You
know, because now they put the extension service
in the experiment station, and we have one
directory, you know, where it's, but even then,
through the years, the programs have grown and the
research has grown, so there's a lot more people
here now than there were when I came over. What do
you think have been Dr. Heiler's, major most most
important objectives?
I think they have vision you know visioning and
wanting to meet the ever-changing needs of the
agriculture and the life sciences and improve
the the progress. Who are the most important
pressure groups, the most important
organizations in Texas agriculture that y'all
work with? Well my main job right now is faculty
promotion and tenure,
the hiring, you know, the appointment papers that
we send to the dean of faculties and reports and so I
don't work with them. I'm sure there are people in
this office to give you a very much better answer on
that than I can. Right now I'm not going to ask the
negative, the positive. Of the deans you've
worked with, which one was the most pleasant to
work with? Well I have had very good bosses all
along. They're all. I knew Dr. Heiler when he came
as an assistant professor. I knew him as
department head, and I did something for him that
he never has forgotten, and that is when the
administration didn't want to approve his
secretary's raise because he had recommended it
higher than they thought. Dr. Heiler was in a
meeting in Florida. And I called him, and he
dictated the justification to me, and it went
through, and he never forgets it. Good, good,
good.
In his routine, are there birthday parties in the
office? Well, now we have usually the first Friday
and we celebrate everybody's
birthday that was in that month. Ah, okay. Usually
they call it Fat Friday, but there is someone
designated to bring the birthday cake. And
normally what time is the office open and what time
does it close? It's open here by 7 o'clock. Dr.
Hyler is here early, and they, Dr. Krieger's going
into his office, maybe others, and they get
started early. And about what time does the last
one leave? I think some, I think generally around
5, but it could be later. Did Dr. Hyler hear longer
hours than some of the other, than the other deans
were? I don't really think so. He may be coming to
work earlier.
Let's see. Of all these years, what are some of the
happiest moments you remember?
I guess I've just had a good time. Most all the time.
I'm just trying to think what would have been the
happiest.
Was there a contract that was approved? Somebody
got promoted or? I'm not really remembering that.
And you're questioning right now because I've
been thinking about it. Remember any sad moments?
Yes, sir. I've seen some sad moments. I was working
the day that Roy Sims got ripped, was on the killing
floor and ripped this knife into his stomach and
bled to death there. And I was on duty that Saturday
morning. That was a sad time. Back in the 40s? Yes,
sir. I think it was in the 40s.
I don't remember exactly when it was, but there's
still a story about that building that his ghost is
over in the animal industry's building. The
students carry that on. Are there some
politicians that you remember that have been
particularly helpful to agriculture?
State or federal politicians that helped? I can't
recall their names at the moment. I'm sure they
are. Bill Moore or Tiger Teague or John Connolly or
Lyndon Johnson. Yes, sir. I'm sure there's some
that have been chair of the finance committee
who've been helpful. And then there's probably
been some that we thought might be helpful more to
someone else. Of the presidents that A&M has had in
your experience, which one supported
agriculture most, you think? there again it's
kind of hard for me to really know okay um let's see
remember any jokes or pranks or goofy things i'm
afraid i'm not very uh good today on pranks and and
jokes all right um I believe I told you the other
day, of course this is not a prank or a joke, that I
remember Mr. Rutter saying he signed things
because, and this is not to do with that, but
because of the signatures he sees on the document
before he signs. I did tell you that the other day on
the phone. But I can't think of...
Pranks... And has it been pleasant for a woman to
work on this campus? Yes, sir. I mean it's been very
pleasant. And in your office have you had, in
today's terminology, have you had a diversity of
staff members? Have there been some Hispanic?
Yes, sir. We have a number around our office. And we
probably have more Hispanic than we do black. But
we have both, all. And do you think that they would
feel positive about working in the office? Yes,
sir. I would hope so. How did you feel when Texas A&M
changed to coeducation and non-compulsory core?
Well, that I liked. My daughters were permitted to
come to Texas A&M and get a degree. So that was good
for us. I don't know whether we would have been
easily able to send them to another university.
How did they, if I were interviewing them, what
would they say about what it was like for them to be
students here? Did they feel they were treated
well? Yes, sir. They did. Sometimes they were the
only one or two women in the class, but they felt
they were treated well. Well, very good. I have
just about run out of questions I can think of. What
have we not covered that we might have? Not sure. Of
what are you most proud, after working here all
these years? I think I'm proud that I've had
wonderful people to work for and with in
agriculture. I think that's maybe the best on the
campus, but that's what I know. And when I came over
here to this office, we had someone down named
Clark Monroe. You remember Clark Monroe? He told
me at the time that when he called me about these
vacancies, he said, I think you can get either one
of them. One of them was for Dr. Graff, Dean Graff, a
staff dean. And I thought I wanted to work for
agriculture. And that would have been in Mr.
Rutter's office. And they told me, Mr. Rutter
sometimes will come out, although you work for
Dean Graff, He will come out and give you work to do.
I did talk to Dr. Dean Graff, and he told me, he said,
you may be here longer than I am. And he wasn't here
too long. Clark, he spells his name differently
for me, but they're close friends of ours. The
Heilers and Clark and Virginia Monroe were in the
Sunday school class I taught at the Presbyterian
Church. Oh, really? And I'm going to interview
Clark in San Antonio Friday. So I will tell him that
you mentioned him. Yes. And I presume you went to
him because he was the personnel officer at that
point. No, they came to me. Oh, okay. I was in animal
science. All right. I was contacted about these
positions. All right, of all the people you have
worked with, if we could have them all together,
which ones would you want to thank most?
Which ones do you feel most grateful for? Well, I
would, of course, Dr. Butler's not here now. No,
but if we could bring them all back, that's what I'm
saying. Dr. Jack Miller, Dr. O.D. Butler, Dr. H.O.
Kunkel, Dr. Krieger now, and Dr. Heiler. And what
do you think is the most important reason for your
long success in this task? I suppose that I have
tried to do my job as well as I can. And I've been, I
think, loyal to them as far as an employee. I've
tried to be. And they have all been excellent
bosses. I've never had anyone that I hated to get up
and go to work that day. It's been a pleasure to work
in the offices. And I've been interested in the
things that have happened in agriculture. in the
academic and the research that I've known about.
Of course, I'm not specifically naming those
things. But agriculture is just, to me, of course,
I would put it at the top of the university. And I'm
sure people who are working in other areas would do
their areas would say that about where they work,
too. I've seen lots of people come and go in this
office since I've been working here. And I used to
supervise the girls. But we didn't have as many as
we have now. I remember one that came from the east
and was wearing the miniskirt. And Dr. Kunkel and
Dr. Potts told me I should tell her that her dress
was too short. And it wasn't long until that style
came here and others were doing it. So you didn't
tell her? Yes, I did tell her. Oh, you did? Oh, okay.
I did tell her. All right. How did pantsuits come
into acceptance? They didn't go over very well
either at first. And when they did allow it, you
were supposed to have coats, pantsuits, not just
anything, and the coats coming down to your
fingertips. Now that was not a written rule. No, it
wasn't a written rule. But you didn't wear short
jackets? Because I remember when Jeanette Ferris
went to Dr. John C. Calhoun on behalf of the other
women to ask if it would be okay, and Dr. Calhoun's
response was laughter. To say, of course it's okay
if you women think it's proper. I know one time I
went somewhere, I think it was when my husband
died, and I had to go somewhere, and then I came back
in and I had on a patent suit, and Dr. Calhoun told me
it looked nice. But I know that we had, we knew, what
kind of pantsuits you could wear. And I presume
you've had lots of student part-time employees
working in and around the office. And I assume that
they have been an important part of the team. Yes,
sir. They are. We used to have maybe one or two in my
office in animal science, and then they have
several students working in this office now. What
kind of advice would you give to, during these
years, what kind of advice did you give to a new
staff member when they came to work in the office?
What advice did you give them to start off? I think
we gave them their responsibilities, and most of
the time they performed them all right. And one
time in animal science, the extension service had
someone that was over all the secretarial staff of
the extension service. And one of the men in
extension had someone working for them that
wasn't working well. Dr. Butler said he didn't
hire, but he could fire.
But most of the time, you know, we've had really,
not everybody's worked out, but generally, yes.
If a new person joins your staff now, do you try to
have a brief session with them? Well, I'm not
responsible for that. I'm working more with Dr.
Krieger and Dr. Heiler and Faculty Matters and
some reports, academic reports. And our student
records and Advising is over in Kleberg now. It's
not in this building. Now, are you the senior
employee in terms of your original employment
date on the campus? I don't know that for sure, but I
wouldn't be surprised. And I presume you're proud
of that. Yes, sir. I don't think about it very
often, but recently I was reminded of it. Uh, last
question I can think to ask, what feelings do you
hold in your heart for Texas A&M? How do you feel
about this place? I like this place. It's a great
place to, and I think, and I'm thankful many times
that Texas A&M University is located here.
Because I'm thinking Bryan College Station
wouldn't be near the place they are if Texas A&M
wasn't here. We'd probably be like Navasota. or
some of those other small towns around. It's made a
lot of difference. Let's quit on that.